## Canal Bat Surveys

### Bats let us know about the wildlife we rarely see. Their numbers need to be recorded and a few boaters might be want to get involved.

The problem is that all our bats fly at night, so they are difficult to see -
since the sounds they make are beyond our range few people can hear them. But
there are ways round these two problems. Committed recorders can go out and buy
a bat detector, and beginners can start by joining in with sunset/sunrise
surveys. (Watch the video)

Anyone lucky enough to be heading down the Oxford Canal in a narrowboat this
year (in August) could be really useful and record the number of bats at Barby,
where the Bat Conservation Trust has previous records and would like to find
out how numbers are changing. This is particularly important after the wet
summer of 2012. An ecologist at the Canal and River Trust said of 2012: 'It was
particularly bad for bats because of the wet period through the breeding season
with insect food being affected'). The bat the trust is concerned with here is
Daubenton's bat (Myotis daubentonii), a bat that is mostly found in woodlands
but always chooses roosts near water sources such as rivers or canals. It emits
echolocation calls of frequencies between 32 and 85 kHz, so you would certainly
need to get a bat detector.

If you are interested in this specific recording opportunity you should contact
the trust at nbmp@bats.org.uk or phone 020 7820 7166, quoting the site code
110626 (the grid reference for this recording site at Barby is SP538720). Other
boaters who plan to be on the Grand Union Canal in August could do the same.
List of bat recording sites on the Grand Union Canal: (Grid ref/location/site
code) SP655959 Wistow 110922 SP626620 Brockhall 110119 SP705558 Rothersthorpe
110130 SP660576 Nether Heyford 110136 SP588650 Welton 110525 To find the exact
location of any of these sites copy/paste the grid reference into a mapping
website.

(NB this article also belongs in the 'Biolocical Recording Channel')