## Record Whatever You See When Out & About

### You do not have to specialise in order to become an amateur biological recorder.

There are many recording schemes set up for individual species or groups of
animals and plants, but something new is beginning to emerge in the
'recordosphere' (my own new word!). You can now find places on the net to
record what you see when 'out and about' on a casual basis. While out walking
today you might spot an interesting bird, tomorrow a slug might grab your
attention, and next week maybe you will take a photo of an unusual-looking
squirrel and want to share the moment.

A network known as 'thewildoutside' is developing a very 'free and easy' way
for people to get involved in sharing their wildlife experiences. As they say:
'it may seem that as individuals we know little information about our local
wildlife and favourite spots, but when we gather this information together in
one place it creates an informative bigger picture for conservationists and
wildlife lovers combined'. Their website allows you to see what has been
recorded by other people, identify what you have seen if you are unsure about
it, and then record your information for others. In order to get involved you
need to register as a member (free) - why not try it?

'TheWildOutside' also has a suggestion very close to my heart - they say: 'Why
not get your children involved and record your sightings as a family?' This is
a brilliant suggestion. It not only increases the amount of recording being
done (a whole family of eyes spots more than a single pair) but it also gets
the kids enthused, and wildlife experiences are an important part of growing up.

Any developments that make recording wildlife sightings easier are, of course,
wonderful - those that have the potential for involving children and whole
families doubly so!
