## Record How Bad Weather Affected Wildlife in 2012

### How well can animals recover from an unusually bad year?

2012 was an unusual year for weather in the UK, and wildlife felt the effect.
Some creatures did badly while others had a good year (BBC Nature). The British
Trust for Ornithology said it was: 'one of the worst (bird) breeding seasons on
record' and an ecologist at the Canal and River Trust said: 'It was
particularly bad for bats because of the wet period through the breeding season
with insect food being affected'. In contrast 2012 was been called 'The Year of
the Slug', with Buglife reporting bumper breeding success for molluscs and some
other animals.

There has been a lot of debate about the causes of this unusual weather - was
it a taste of things to come as global warming has its effect, or was it simply
an unusual year that we should expect to experience from time to time? It is
certainly important to work out why these things happen - if it is just part of
a 'natural cycle' maybe we can just shrug it off, but if the climate is
actually changing because humans are producing too much carbon dioxide we
should take urgent action (or shout loudly until someone else does!). But, as
far as wildlife is concerned, the cause is irrelevant. The weather was unusual
and some animals did very well while others suffered badly. We have some idea
how the weather affected these creatures because people (often amateurs) were
out there recording what they saw and reporting their findings, and we will
only know how numbers and distribution have changed if people get out there
again this year (2013) to gather the information.

We are looking at extremely complex issues here. Dramatic changes in animal
populations (whatever the cause) have far reaching and poorly understood
consequences. It would be difficult enough to understand if the only variable
in the equation was the weather, but the fact is that our UK wildlife is having
to cope with massive habitat changes and the arrival of new 'invasive species'
at the same time.

Before we can even begin to intervene in any way we need to know what is going
on - the first step is to get out and have a look!
